we stay in the US where Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
addressed a joint session of Congress he
promised to continue the war against
Hamas in Gaza and called on the United
States to Stand United with Israel in
his speech he also defended his
country's conduct of the war which has
left some 40,000 Palestinians dead and
as he made that speech thousands of
protesters gathered outside to demand an
end to the
conflict a standing evation by us
lawmakers for Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin
Netanyahu in his address to a joint
session of Congress Netanyahu defended
his country's conduct in the fight
against Hamas in Gaza and urged for more
us
support today as Israel fights on the
front line of civilization I too appeal
to America give us the tools faster and
will finish the job
faster not everyone has welcomed
netanyahu's visit to Washington dozens
of us lawmakers boycotted and a
Palestinian American congresswoman
Rashida Talib silently expressed anger
over the number of Palestinians killed
in
[Applause]
Gaza outside the capital building large
number of protesters gathered to call
for an end to the war and the humanity
Arian crisis in Gaza several were
arrested after clashes between police
and
protesters he doesn't belong
here we're going to see a free Palestine
and we're going to keep fighting want
this war to stop and we would like us
arming of any war crimes to stop it's uh
disgraceful that they invited him this
prime minister doesn't not represent
Israel anymore 70% of the popul
thinks he should resign he's responsible
for uh a lot of the issues Israel is
facing now and his government is
completely incompetent and they're not
able to handle the
situation inside the house chamber
Netanyahu blasted the
demonstrators well I have a message for
these
protesters when the tyrants of Teran who
hang gays from cranes and murder women
for not covering their hair are praising
promoting and funding you you have
officially become Iran's useful
idiots this is netanyahu's first visit
to the us since the October 7 attack by
Hamas on Israel and he is due to meet
with President Joe Biden on
Thursday and earlier I asked DW's
Jerusalem correspondent Tanya ker if the
Prime Minister speech to the US Congress
is likely to persuade his critics in
Israel well I don't think so because
there has been a lot of criticism even
ahead of him traveling to Washington
with his critics saying among them also
many relatives of the hostages that are
still being held captive in Israel
saying he shouldn't go to Washington he
should work on a deal and at least if he
goes to Washington he should announce
that a deal a ceasefire deal that would
see the release of those remaining
hostages uh would be close and this
certainly didn't happen now we have of
course his DieHard supporters uh they
have been saying in reaction to that
that you know they highlighted the many
standing ovations he got for his speech
where he struck a bipartisan tone at
times but also saying you know our
enemies are your enemies uh to the
Americans but at the same time we just
heard it also in the report a majority
in most of the major polls uh that have
been conducted here in recent months a
majority of Israelis want him to resign
as prime minister over the failures that
led to October
7 and they also want to see progress in
uh uh this hostage deal uh hostage deal
but the speech didn't give any
indication uh where this is at and uh
you know also disparaging uh some of the
protests some of them were relatives of
hostages and supporters from Israel
traveling uh there so I don't think uh
you know his critics uh will uh will
appreciate what he did there in Congress
in these negotiations over a hostage
deal are set to continue rather set to
resume in Doha will this trip have an
influence on the outcome of those
negotiations well this is still to see
because from what we understand on on
last Sunday the prime minister's office
said uh uh this week there will be uh uh
a delegation leaving on Thursday uh
today uh to Doha to continue those talks
this as far as we understand uh trip has
been postponed because uh first today uh
US President Joe Biden and prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu will meet in
Washington so there a lot of eyes on
this meeting where it's expected that
both are talking also about uh the uh
the ceasefire deal uh you know there
there is a saying by officials that the
main framework has been agreed upon but
there are many many details that remain
in gaps uh remain open so for the moment
we don't know exactly where those
negotiations stand about that meeting
between President Biden and prime
minister Netanyahu vice president kamla
Harris is also expected to be there
there today Biden did not invite
Netanyahu to Washington he was there at
the request of congressional Republicans
is that likely to be a tense
meeting well I mean it will be
interesting to see uh both leaders uh
meeting uh in this context right now
because both have rather strained
relations that doesn't say Joe Biden is
a very strong support supp his support
for Israel also during wartime is iron
glad and we have heard uh Netanyahu
trying to make an overt to Biden
thanking him for his efforts uh uh for
uh Israel but he also thanked uh uh
former president uh Donald Trump uh for
all what he has done for Israel and
we're expecting those both leaders to
talk about uh several issues among them
we heard uh that's probably from the
Israeli side prime minister Netanyahu
who said that he wants uh you know more
arms shipment uh faster and more uh
Supply we could uh think that the
Americans would rather talk about uh
humanitarian Aid to Gaza also obviously
about the hostage deal and Israel's
conduct of war and that comes after
netan said in a speech to Congress
yesterday he claimed basically that
there were almost no civilian casualties
in the offensive in Rafa so I think both
have a lot to talk about but uh again
it's also to see what leverage uh uh Joe
Biden has and now that he's dropping out
of the presidential race you know how
much pressure he will exert on Benjamin
Netanyahu we'll leave it there for the
moment DW's Tanya krer in Jerusalem
thanks so
much uh quick look now at some other
stories making news around the world
Australia says it is sanctioning seven
Israeli settlers in the occupied West
Bank because of their involvement in
violent attacks against against
Palestinians Australian prime minister
Anthony albanesi says settlements in the
West Bank are an impediment to a
two-state solution the EU and the US
have already sanctioned some Israeli
settlers